The OIDC docs (#3656)
gitpod-io/website: gitpod/docs/integrations/aws.md

---
section: integrations
title: AWS
---

<script context="module">
  export const prerender = true;
</script>

> 

Reviewer: **Suggestion**: Maybe we can add a callout in this Doc. to `/docs/configure/workspaces/oidc` to provide more context.

Author: That's a great one, I agree. What's your thoughts on https://github.com/gitpod-io/website/pull/3656/commits/27ec0af047f83d2e76ae5c57c1dec7ed09c2a609? How can we improve it?

# Setting up OIDC Authentication with AWS

To use an <abbr title="Identity Provider">IdP</abbr>, you create an IAM identity provider entity to establish a trust relationship between your AWS account and the IdP. Using OIDC authentication with AWS gives you fine-grained control of which Gitpod workspaces can access what resources inside of your cloud account.

## Step 1: Create an "AWS Identity Provider" resource

AWS Identity Providers allow you to manage user identities outside of AWS, instead of creating IAM users in your AWS account and give these external identities (e.g. Gitpod workspaces) permissions to use AWS resources in your account.

Configure the URL of the identity provider to: `<your-installation>/idp`

> For example: `https://gitpod.io/idp`.

Reviewer: **Suggestion**: Can we use some other example URL, which has something unspecified? Maybe something like?:

```suggestion
For example: `https://**.ws-*.gitpod.io/idp`.
```

Author: Thanks for calling out the mistake here. This should be `api.${INSTALLATION_URL}/idp`.

Author: https://github.com/gitpod-io/website/pull/3656/commits/1f458f2e12fa78dfa06ee5d054290db96b4e1868 should fix this

**Read more:**

> - [https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_providers_create.html](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_providers_create.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [[AWS docs] Creating IAM identity providers](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_providers_create.html)
```

> - [https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_providers_create_oidc.html](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_providers_create_oidc.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [[AWS docs] Creating OpenID Connect (OIDC)](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_providers_create_oidc.html)
```

## Step 2: Create an AWS role with a trust policy

Now that your AWS account is setup to trust Gitpod, you need to create an AWS IAM role that can be assumed by the Gitpod workspace. Here, you can also restrict who has access to the assumed role based on claims in your Gitpod workspace JWT token.

> > Important: We strongly recommend you adhere to the principle of least privilege, and ensure that only relevant workspaces and users can assume your AWS role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> 💡 **Important**: We strongly recommend you adhere to the principle of least privilege, and ensure that only relevant workspaces and users can assume your AWS role.
```

<figure>

```json
{
  "iss": "https://api.dev-internal.gitpod.cloud/idp",
  "aud": ["sts.amazonaws.com"],
  "azp": "sts.amazonaws.com",
  "c_hash": "zSrbWN_X9Wx52-wxjgdX5w",
  "exp": 1682344961,
  "iat": 1682341361,
  "auth_time": 1682341361,
  "sub": "https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod",
  "name": "loujaybee"
}
```

  <figcaption>
    Example claims in the OIDC JWT.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

To adjust the IAM role trust policy to restrict which workspaces can assume the role. You can define conditions keys using the name of the OIDC provider (created in step 1, e.g. `gitpod.io`) followed by the claim (`:aud`, `:azp`, `:amr`, `sub`).

<figure>

```json
{
  Action    = "sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity"
  Condition = {
    StringEquals = {
      "gitpod.io/idp:aud" = "sts.amazonaws.com",
      "gitpod.io/idp:sub": "https://github.com/loujaybee/oidc-consumer"
    }
  }
  Effect = "Allow"
  Principal = {
    Federated = "arn:aws:iam::790285888667:oidc-provider/api.dev-internal.gitpod.cloud/idp"
  }
}
```

  <figcaption>
    Example IAM role assume role trust policy.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

**Read more:**

> - [https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference_policies_iam-condition-keys.html](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference_policies_iam-condition-keys.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [[AWS docs] IAM and AWS STS condition context keys](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference_policies_iam-condition-keys.html)
```

## Step 3: Assume the AWS role to retrieve the AWS credentials

> Important: The follg assumes that your workspace has the AWS CLI installed so that it can call aws sts assume-role-with-web-identity from the AWS CLI.

The following code will login to AWS using OIDC and then fetch a secret dynamically from AWS Secrets Manager for use in your application.

<figure>

```yaml
tasks:
  - command: |
    gp idp login aws --role-arn <your-iam-role-arn>
    aws secretsmanager get-secret-value --secret-id database_connection_string --region us-east-1 | jq .SecretString
```

  <figcaption>

>     Example_ `.gitpod.yml` _that assumes a web identity role.

Reviewer: Markdown typo?

```suggestion
    Example _`.gitpod.yml`_ that assumes a web identity role.
```

Author: Yes indeed. Thanks!

  </figcaption>
</figure>

Read more:

> - [https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/sts/assume-role-with-web-identity.html](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/sts/assume-role-with-web-identity.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [[AWS docs] `assume-role-with-web-identity`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/sts/assume-role-with-web-identity.html)
```

Author: Thank you @Siddhant-K-code 🙏.

> PR Description says, it would update the Gitpod CLI references, but changes aren't included 🤔

The body is outdated, changed it now. We are not going to change the reference page until this is publicly available.

> Update Menu.ts file, to reflect sections in left menu bar.

I believe this is not what we want right now, think of it as an unlisted video on YouTube 😄. cc @loujaybee

---
section: integrations
title: AWS
---

<script context="module">
  export const prerender = true;
</script>

# Setting up OIDC Authentication with AWS

> > ℹ️ This document describes the setup for AWS with OIDC. [Learn more](/docs/configure/workspaces/oidc) about OpenID Connect in Gitpod.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> ℹ️ This document is a guide for using AWS with Gitpod OIDC support. For more general information about the GItpod OIDC integration, see [OIDC](/docs/configure/workspaces/oidc).
```

> To use an <abbr title="Identity Provider">IdP</abbr>, you create an IAM identity provider entity to establish a trust relationship between your AWS account and the IdP. Using OIDC authentication with AWS gives you fine-grained control of which Gitpod workspaces can access what resources inside of your cloud account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To connect an <abbr title="Identity Provider">IdP</abbr> such as Gitpod to AWS you need to create an "IAM identity provider" to establish a trust relationship between your AWS account and Gitpod. Using OIDC authentication with AWS gives you fine-grained control of which Gitpod workspaces can access what resources inside of your cloud account.
```

## Step 1: Create an "AWS Identity Provider" resource

AWS Identity Providers allow you to manage user identities outside of AWS, instead of creating IAM users in your AWS account and give these external identities (e.g. Gitpod workspaces) permissions to use AWS resources in your account.

> Configure the URL of the identity provider to: `https://api.<your-installation>/idp`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Configure the URL of the identity provider to: `https://api.<gitpod-installation>/idp`
```

  "name": "loujaybee"
}
```

  <figcaption>
    Example claims in the OIDC JWT.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

To adjust the IAM role trust policy to restrict which workspaces can assume the role. You can define conditions keys using the name of the OIDC provider (created in step 1, e.g. `gitpod.io`) followed by the claim (`:aud`, `:azp`, `:amr`, `sub`).

<figure>

```json
{
  Action    = "sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity"
  Condition = {
    StringEquals = {
      "gitpod.io/idp:aud" = "sts.amazonaws.com",
      "gitpod.io/idp:sub": "https://github.com/loujaybee/oidc-consumer"
    }
  }
  Effect = "Allow"
  Principal = {
    Federated = "arn:aws:iam::790285888667:oidc-provider/api.dev-internal.gitpod.cloud/idp"
  }
}
```

  <figcaption>
    Example IAM role assume role trust policy.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

**Read more:**

- [[AWS docs] IAM and AWS STS condition context keys](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference_policies_iam-condition-keys.html)

## Step 3: Assume the AWS role to retrieve the AWS credentials

> 💡 **Important**: The following assumes that your workspace has the AWS CLI installed so that it can call `aws sts assume-role-with-web-identity`.

> The following code will login to AWS using OIDC and then fetch a secret dynamically from AWS Secrets Manager for use in your application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can either call the AWS CLI `assume-role` command manually, or use the helper within the `gp` CLI, `gp idp aws login` which will automatically update your CLI credentials file. 
The following code will login to AWS using OIDC and then fetch a secret dynamically from AWS Secrets Manager for use in your application.
```

<figure>

```yaml
tasks:

>   - command: |
>     gp idp login aws --role-arn <your-iam-role-arn>
>     aws secretsmanager get-secret-value --secret-id database_connection_string --region us-east-1 | jq .SecretString
> ```

Reviewer 2: Invalid YAML 🙏 

```suggestion
  - command: |
      gp idp login aws --role-arn <your-iam-role-arn>
      aws secretsmanager get-secret-value --secret-id database_connection_string --region us-east-1 | jq .SecretString
```

  <figcaption>

>     Example <code>.gitpod.yml</code> that assumes a web identity role.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    An example <code>.gitpod.yml</code> that assumes an AWS web identity role.
```
